we know it can be tempting to swap and
dried herbs when a recipe calls for
fresh after all they're a lot more
convenient and a lot cheaper than buying
bunches of fresh herbs from the
supermarket so we decided to look into
the matter more thoroughly I wanted to
find out when the swap would really be
acceptable
so we purchased a lot of different herbs
both fresh and dried we got basil
cilantro chives dill oregano parsley
rosemary sage tarragon and time we then
cooked our way through 24 recipes
including marinade sauces and braises
making each with the fresh and dried
herbs and comparing differences in
flavor a common criticism of dried herbs
was they lost many of the subtleties and
nuances of fresh herbs they tasted dusty
and stale meanwhile fresh herbs tasted
clean and bright in all but one
application tasters preferred the fresh
herbs to dry that one exception dried
oregano in chili a combination were so
familiar with that fresh oregano
actually tasted out of place so beyond
this instance there were a handful of
times in which some dried herbs made
decent substitutes dried rosemary sage
and thyme also fared reasonably well in
recipes involving fairly long cooking
times so we're talking more than 20
minutes and a good amount of liquid such
as in soups and stews what explains why
some dried herbs work better than others
well the principal flavor compounds at
herbs fall into a handful of categories
hydrocarbons aldehydes ketones phenols
alcohols and esters now within each
category some compounds are volatile
meaning they're very fragile and
therefore easily lost to the heat of the
drying process and cooking on the other
hand some compounds are stable which
means they don't change at high
temperatures and are thus able to
maintain their flavor under those exact
same conditions the flavor compounds
found in what we call delicate herbs and
we're talking about basil cilantro
chives dill parsley and tarragon tend to
be more volatile
hence the fresh form always performs
better than the dry in contrast the
dominant flavor compounds in the herbs
that work really pretty well when dried
which are rosemary oregano sage and
thyme they're non volatile and they
better survive drying and cooking dried
herbs are best used in recipes with
ample liquid because moisture will
hydrate their cells which makes
able to release more of their aroma
compounds but even in ideal
circumstances for dried herbs they will
always have a slightly dusty stale
flavor because the drying process leads
to oxidation so when a recipe calls for
delicate herbs or uses them raw to
finish a dish it's best to stick with
fresh however if a recipe calls for
hearty herbs such as rosemary oregano
sage or thyme the dried form can work
just keep in mind that ounce for ounce
dried herbs are more potent than fresh
our testing in which we use only newly
purchased jars of herbs showed us that
using one part dried herb to three parts
fresh came closest to producing flavors
of equal strength this is the science of
good cooking